Docs -- tabs extended v2 (#1702)
carbon-design-system/carbon-for-ibm-dotcom-website: src/pages/components/tabs-extended.mdx

---
title: Tabs extended

> description: Tabs extended leverages the Carbon tab with style updates to better organize editorial content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Tabs extended leverages the Carbon tab component with style updates to better organize editorial content.
```

<AnchorLinks>
  <AnchorLink>Overview</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Tabs extended</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Tabs extended with media</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Behaviors</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Feedback</AnchorLink>
</AnchorLinks>

<InlineNotification>

**Breaking change:** Previously, tabs extended was a separate component in Carbon for IBM.com v1. In v2, tabs extended will use Carbon Design System's [tab](https://carbondesignsystem.com/components/tabs/usage/) directly with automatic style updates.

</InlineNotification>

## Overview

> Tabs extended displays parallel pieces of related content, allowing users to explore the displayed content of their choice. It also has the benefit of reducing the amount of scrolling the user may have to do on a given page, but should be used carefully because some information is hidden on load. If the information in a tab would be key to the page content, consider laying out the content using a different component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tabs extended displays parallel pieces of related content, allowing users to explore the displayed content of their choice. It also has the benefit of reducing the amount of scrolling the user may have to do on a given page, but should be used carefully because some information is hidden on load. If the information within a tab is essential for the user, consider using a different component that will not hide the content.
```

The tabs extended component uses the Carbon Design System's [tabs](https://carbondesignsystem.com/components/tabs/usage/) component directly, and includes automatic style updates to optimize for editorial content.

<Row>

> <Column colMd={8} colLg={8}>

Reviewer 2: This image looks a bit too small to really showcase the component. I'd suggest showing it at 12 columns or reducing the padding. 
I've been creating the original content at 100%, then scaling by 62% per the image production guidelines and seeing which size frame it fits on best, our 12 column components are really unfortunate on all the sizes tbh.. 608 has no extra space and 928 is too much space.

Reviewer 2: Looks like we're missing the blue selected indicator on all the images

![Image of Tabs extended component on desktop. Tabs extended displays a set of options with different labels, with one option in semibold type to indicate that it is selected](../../images/component/tabs-extended/tabs-extended-overview-01.png)

> <Caption>Example of the tabs extended on desktop</Caption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of tabs extended on desktop</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

> Like tabs, tabs extended will expand a given item horizontally to display the whole label without truncating. Keep this in mind as you write selection items for tabs extended, as overly long labels can push other options out of the initial view. Also consider translation lengthening the label.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Tab labels
Like tabs, each tab label is set to auto-width and will vary based on the label's character count, and will have consistent padding on either side of the label. Keep this in mind as you write labels for each tab, as overly long labels can push other options out of the initial view. Also consider that translation will generally lengthen the label, reference the [content guidance table](### content-guidance-for-tabs-extended) for best practices.
```

## Tabs extended

Tabs extended can nest other components inside its content area to display them based on the user's selection. We recommend nesting similar components in sequence, rather than varying the types of components displayed in a given tabs experience.

<ResourceLinks name="Tabs extended" type="ui" multiComponent />

### Content guidance for Tabs extended

| Element                                                                                                                | Content type | Required | Instances | Character limit <br/>(English / translated) | Notes                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Child container                                                                                                        | Component    | Yes      | Min 2     | –                                           | Container areas that child components and other content types can be passed into (1 per tab). |

Reviewer 2: super picky, but I think the container should be below the tab as it is the child of the tab

> | <a href="https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/tabs/usage/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Tabs</a> | Component    | Yes      | 2–6       | –                                           |                                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: Do we need both tab item and tabs in the content guidance table?

| Tab item                                                                                                               | Text         | Yes      | –         | 25 / 35                                     |                                                                                               |

For more information, see the [character count standards](https://www.ibm.com/standards/carbon/guidelines/content#character-count-standards).

> ## Tabs extended with media

Reviewer 2: Let's double check with the devs.. I read through this whole page then remembered we maybe deprecated tabs extended with media?

> Tabs extended with media is a prebuilt variant of tabs extended which provides an option where the tab panel is pre-populated with the [Content item row](/components/content-item-row) with media component to create an organized section for displaying content paired with media.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tabs extended with media is a prebuilt variant of tabs extended which provides an option where the tab panel is pre-populated with the [content item row](/components/content-item-row) with media component
```

<Caption>
  Tabs extended with media displaying the second instance of content
</Caption>

</Column>

</Row>

<ResourceLinks name="Tabs extended media" type="layout" multiComponent />

### Content guidance for Tabs extended media

| Element                                                                                   | Content type | Required | Instances | Character limit <br/>(English / translated) | Notes          |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Tabs extended                                                                             | Component    | Yes      | 1         | –                                           |                |
| [Content item row with media](../components/content-item-row#content-item-row-with-media) | Component    | Yes      | 1         | –                                           | Max 1 per tab. |

> ## Behaviors

Reviewer 2: Behavior section should be above the content guidance, right?

### Overflow

When the tabs extended options would be hidden due to the window becoming too small, overflow buttons will automatically appear on the sides of the component. These buttons allow users to navigate the entire tabs extended to see all options regardless of screen size. Note that this functionality occurs across all breakpoints, not just mobile.

<Row>

<Column colMd={8} colLg={8}>

> ![Tabs extended with an overflow on desktop, in which case an overflow button appears to indicate that there is more content out of view](../../images/component/tabs-extended/tabs-extended-behavior-01.png)

Reviewer 2: Both images missing blue selection indicator
